So what is its history mode
that it's yelling at us about?
History mode is a way to basically define
how you want your URLs to be displayed.
Traditionally speaking, when you're
looking at the view router doc's, and
we check it out here.
So, traditionally,
single page applications because
they're just the index HTML file when
they're served the webpage,
they're known as WebHashHistory.
So typically, what you would find is you
would basically see like the root page,
and then it will say
like router.vuejs.org.
And then it'll do like
this hashtag symbol, and
then it will basically do
the routing from there.
The problem with that is
that it's not a true URL.
And then there are SEO issues.
So what most of us are used to instead is
what is termed HTML5 mode or web history.
And that is, in other words, how you
would expect your URL to normally look.
And so basically,
you need to define which one it is.
So for us, we're going to go ahead and
just use the WebHashHistory right now,
because there are some things you
need to configure for the HTML5 mode.
For that, I'm not sure we'll
have time to cover, okay?
So inside of our router,
we have the history and
we will say the createWebHashHistory( ),
and that can be imported from here, okay?
Now, that we have this, this should start
to feel a little bit better for the app.
Look, already something is showing up.
Let me go back to App.vue for
our playground.
And this time, let me go ahead and
swap the color out though to white, so
that it's actually easier to read.
There we go, okay?
Now, we're good.
Now, you might notice though,
if we're looking here,
that this is where the hash history
is actually showing up, you see that?
It's already starting to do that,
but you might realize, wait, but
didn't need to find a homepage like,
why isn't that showing up?
And the reason is because vue router
provides us some new built in components.
That's going to make all the difference
when it comes to helping us
manage the routing.
So remember how in the seller view I was
manually switching the view on stuff.
So,we go to App.vue for sale view.
Inside of here I had this component is,
that was dynamically swapping it out.
Well, basically, view router gives
us a supercharged version of that,
where we can actually just say,
okay, inside of my App.vue,
I'm going to drop a thing
called router view.
And if you notice,
my homepage has now showed up.
And if I switch over to Pokedex, okay.
So, we see some errors here regarding the
Pokedex, and that is because it looks like
it has to do with the fact that there
is an asynchronous operation happening.
So again, for the sake of demoing this
real quick because we want to focus on
the routing part and not that.
I'm just going to switch the h1
over to Pokedex real quick.
And then we can see here, there we go.
We have that here, and we go back home,
that switches to the homepage.
And that at its core is
how this all works, right?
If we build it up from scratch.
And so now with the router view, you might
be thinking, well, okay, that's nice, but
I don't have to memorize the links.
That's not practical.
I want actual links, so I can switch it.
And so you might think, okay, well my
natural instinct then is to create a nav
item, or I have an a href, and I'm
gonna go to /pokedex, and then pokedex.
And then I'll have one for the home.
Just like that.
So that might be your first instinct.
But if we do this and click on it,
you'll notice that nothing's happening.
Because if we look up here,
is actually changing the URL to something
that's not actually with the hat.
You see this, what I mean?
It's blinking out.
What you want to do is actually be able
to say, it's actually on this side.
Because why?
Because view router is the one responsible
for managing that, not the browser.
So don't worry,
it's actually pretty easy to do.
This is actually pretty easy to do.
Rather than using the native anchor tag,
what you end up getting instead,
it's just like you have router view,
you have a router link component.
And so, that is view router's way of
helping you to manage things like history,
there's lots of stuff it can do for you.
But the main thing though that's
different is that there's to property
rather than a href.
Because again, it's not truly an anchor
tag, it is doing some programmatic stuff
underneath the hood to help
you move to the desired pages.
So save that.
And this time, when we swap over, you can
see that it's actually doing it correctly.
So, if we think about the router view,
it really just like the dynamic component.
It's just swapping in and out components,
and then we have that really nice
user experience of having it already be
basically automatically configured for us.
The one thing I will note in case you're
wondering is that you're probably thinking
that was a decent amount of setup.
Well, I want you to know.
So I'm going to go ahead and
show you this real quick.
This won't be committed
as part of the code.
If we go ahead and
run the npm create vue three.
Oops, that was the wrong version, okay.
You might remember that there's actually
the opportunity to actually add view
router as part of your configuration.
We explicitly ignored it because it does
a few things which I'm about to show you.
So I'm gonna say yes this time, and
I'll show you what that looks like.
So we look at the view project now,
you'll notice that it actually
looks a bit different.
It comes with more boilerplate now,
so you can see inside of main.js.
The router is already being used.
There already is a router.js basically
already created with all this base stuff
already waiting for
you regarding like a home view.
It has some basically some prefix stuff.
It's even generated a views
directory with some sample pages.
And so your App.vue out of
the gate is actually configured.
To already use,
you can see the router link here.
You can see the router view here.
So just know that what I did is to show
you how you might do that from scratch.
Most of the time,
you're not gonna be doing that.
It'll already be configured for you,
you're going to go in there and
make some changes.
And so again, if you ever want a reference
on a clean way of how they did it,
you can always scaffold a new project with
it, and you'll get everything you need.